From hanselminutes.com. That's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number three Oh one recorded
live Tuesday, January 10th, 2012. Support for
Hansel minutes is provided by
Telerik rad controls, the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forums and asp.net web
applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Zach Owens
about learning to speak another
one Language Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. And today on the
phone from where, where are
you? Zach? I'm in Beijing
on the phone from Beijing.
Zach Owens is going to
talk to me about learning
languages, but not just learning
C sharp and VB and
Pascal and all that kind
of stuff, but learning foreign
languages. When I first heard
about your story and hanging
out with you a couple
of times at Qdoba, I
was absolutely fascinated because I've
spent a lot of time
studying foreign languages, but ultimately
I've never lived overseas, which
effectively makes me a bit
of a poser when it
comes to, to speaking other
languages. Would you mind? I
don't, I don't buy that.
I don't buy that at
all. So what languages do
you speak? I have some
conversational stuff and a couple
of different languages, but mostly
I'm finding if, if you
don't use them, you just
end up with some fun
phrases. You know what I
mean? Like I, I went
out with an Ethiopian girl
10 years ago for a
couple of years and I,
you know, I spoke Ethiopian
like, like maybe a five-year-old,
you know, as well on
my way. And then we
broke up and then, you
know, now it's, you know,
50 phrases and I can
read it, but that doesn't
make you fluent at all.
And now it's more of
a, I get to use
it when I go to
a restaurant. So it makes
me feel sad. I speak
Chinese, like a five-year-old, if
that makes you feel any
better. And I've lived in
China for about a year,
so Well, but I meet
lots of people who have
lived in, you know, country
of choice for a year,
two years, three years, and
you'll meet people. Who've lived
in the U S for
20 years and haven't learned
English. So there are people
who, like, I met a
person who lived in Malaysia
for five years and like,
didn't speak a word of
Malaysian. All they did was
hang out with the, with
the locals. And that's not
your style. That's not my
style. That's a recipe for
a, a sheltered life in
another country. So you've, you've
done. You grew up where,
So I grew up in
the U S mostly in
Michigan, but bounced around to
her to a lot of
different places, Arizona, Texas, New Mexico.
I moved to Seattle to
work for Microsoft. I had
lived in Maui before that
for a few years. So
kind of like adventure. I
lived in Spain for a
little while as well. So,
And if I remember correctly,
when you went to Spain,
did you take language classes?
You actually found a tutor?
Well, so when I went
to Spain, it was actually
my first year of college
and the excuse was to
actually go study Spanish. So
I was there for six
months studying Spanish and training
to race bicycles. And I
ended up actually getting a
bachelor's degree in computer science
and in Spanish. So no
excuse not to speak Spanish.
Yeah, indeed. And then you,
when I tell people about
you, I say, well, yeah,
when he lived in Spain
and he said, well, I'm
done with Spain for awhile
and I'll go somewhere else.
When did you have the
opportunity to move to China?
And when did you decide
that you would stick around
there more than just a
couple of months? Sure. So
Microsoft, one of the really
cool things about it is
it's a global company. So
there's this program that they
have for exchange between China
and Microsoft headquarters. So there's
a three to six month
rotation programs. And I convinced
my managers at the time
to let me come to
China for a six month
rotation. And pretty much the
first week I was here,
I was thinking of ways
to find out how to
stay because I knew I
loved it. So now I
actually work for the Microsoft
China subsidiary in a DPE
and the developer and platform,
evangelism groups sort of focused
on driving cloud computing in
China and no real plans
to leave. I love it
here. So you knew you
didn't speak Chinese when you
moved there and you knew
you'd be working though. I
mean, are you, are you
speaking, five-year-old child Chinese, isn't
in your job where you're
speaking English most of the
time or a little, both.
So at work. So especially
in the sales and marketing
part of what's happening in
China, we've got engineering out
here and we've got sales
and marketing. So engineering is
much more of an English
speaking culture, even though most
people are Chinese. Whereas sales
and marketing is pretty hardcore
sort of Chinese culture, Chinese
language. I'm the only foreigner
or the only, non-Chinese a
native speaker in our division
out here. So most meetings
are in Chinese are all
of our all hands or
whatever it is, are in
Chinese. So I have to
pick up from the conversations.
And at this point I
pick up, you know, over
50%, maybe 50 to 80%
of what's going on. But
usually when I talk, it
will be in English. So
I can have basic conversations
with people about sort of
life and like kind of
what's going on and over
the weekend and the fundamentals.
But once it gets deeper
than sort of that surface
level, I still can't express
myself very articulately. And this
is after 12, 12 months,
Probably like 14 months now.
And I've been doing one
on one with a language
teacher anywhere between one to
five days a week. And
yeah, and that was where
I wanted to kind of
take into that. How does
that process work? Cause I
understand, you know, when you're,
you're learning a programming language,
you know, it's more common
to lock yourself in a
room with a problem and
a language book and kind
of bang it out and
figure it out. Although that's
been traditionally more and more,
you see people doing peer
programming to learn a programming
language or a grammar, but
we, we, we, we know
well that learning a language
and a culture you've got
to go out and you've
got to use it. What
made you decide to sit
down with this tutor? Well,
so I think the interesting,
I mean, especially in the
context of your audience and
really this is where you
and I started making some
connections on the potential to
do a show on this
is I think there are
some real similarities to learning
a programming language and learning
a spoken language. So I've
loved programming. I'm a developer,
I've learned a number of
different languages and there are
some real similarities. I mean,
you point out the differences
in that with the programming
language, you can lock yourself
in a room and just
start banging out a problem
and you figure out how
to get it done. Whereas
the language you need sort
of more of a foundation.
But I also believe that
to really learn a language
it's much of the same
approach in terms of you
get a foundation. I mean,
even generally, if I'm learning
a new programming language, I
will spend some time reading
some tutorials, writing some simple
apps to sort of figure
out how the thing works
before going and jumping into
a bigger project. I think
the language is the same
thing. Like getting the fundamentals,
getting just a base understanding.
And then the thing that's
really similar is that you
have to just jump in
and start doing it to
really learn it. So even
though I didn't speak any
Chinese when I got here,
cause I didn't have a
big planning stage of actually
coming out here. I mean,
after I took three or
four classes and I knew
how to say hello, and
a couple of basic phrases
is I just started using
them all the time. And
I think there are certain
language learners who are quite
cautious about actually trying to
use it because it's, they're
going to get it wrong.
Whereas I think if you
apply the same approach is
really learning a new programming
language and going for it.
You can really start to
make progress. And so that's
where I think there's a
big overlap in the two,
at least in that aspect.
Wouldn't you say though, that
putting yourself out there is
such a difficult thing to
do? I mean, certainly, you
know, I, I I've, you
know, tried to teach myself
Ruby, but I don't know,
idiomatic Ruby by any means
to go out and ask
questions is a really difficult
thing to go out and
write Ruby and talk to
people who write Ruby and
write it wrong and blog
about it wrong would be
really, really challenging. And that
the same as the case,
if you're going to go
off and start talking Chinese
to native Chinese, especially at
work, I mean, how do
you get over that sounding
like a total idiot? Well,
I guess the, the in
both of those contexts that
I think is probably the
potential for a saving grace
is modesty and humility. It's
like, I know my Chinese,
isn't great. I know it's
bad. I know I'm not
good at programming Ruby, and
I'm not going to try
and go sound like a
Ruby expert, but I will
get up there and admit
the fact that I'm not
an expert in this technology
and this, but here's my
potential thoughts. And you know,
let's have a conversation and
correct me when I'm wrong
and I'm here to learn
from you. So I think
a similar approach to trying
to speak a language goes
a long way. I think
people in different countries that
are different on this, but
in generally I think people
love it when they see
that you're trying to speak
their language, whether you're, you
know, the Microsoft guy coming
into a web community that
people thought you were irrelevant,
or whether you are A,
A westerner new to China
and just trying to get
along as long as you're
kind of humble and come
across in the right way.
I think that's the, that's
the key thing. Someone said
that the way that, you
know, you really don't know
a language is if you
try to order food in
that language and the waiter
immediately switches to English, it's
just such a slap in
the face. You know what
I mean? I always feel
like that if I order,
if I ordered a Mexican
restaurant and I feel I'm
feeling like particularly good about
my accent that day and
I bust out something in
Spanish and the guy's like,
really? So I hear you.
I, my perspective on that
one from what I've experienced
in China in particular is
depending where you're at, like
what part of the country
and how comfortable the step,
the people who are you're
talking to are with the,
with English versus with Chinese.
So I find, so I
live in Beijing. So most
foreigners in China would live
in Beijing or Shanghai. And
there's, there's huge rivalries between
the cities. I love them.
Both Shanghai is definitely much
more of a westernized society
and culture based on their,
their history. Very understandably. Whereas
Beijing is sort of the
heart of culture and government
and things like that. So
I find in Beijing, it's
much easier to learn Chinese,
learn Mandarin because you really
have to use it much
more. So in your daily
life, compared to in Shanghai,
a lot of the people
that you'll interact with and
restaurants and especially certain kinds
of restaurants will speak English
and we'll switch to English
even once you start Chinese
sometimes. But I do agree
with what you're saying now
though. Cause when I think
back more, when I, I
go to Shanghai regularly and
when I first started going
to Shanghai, I found it
really difficult to speak Chinese
with anyone in Shanghai because
they would switch to English.
Whereas now that my Chinese
has come along to the
point where I can have
conversations with people the last
few times I've gone, they
haven't switched. So thanks, Scott.
You just sort of made
me feel a little bit
better about my progress. That's
pretty awesome. Good for you.
I'm glad. Yeah. Thanks. Now
you were saying though that
the, the sense of being
comfortable and being humble and
being willing to jump in
and you know, say, Hey,
I don't know anything about
anything, but you know, here's
a good, here's a good
try. That can be cute
with a fruit vendor or
someone you see for 20
minutes. But for someone you
have to work with 40
hours a day, they may
not have the patience to
deal with you limping along
in Chinese. Have you had
any trouble where it's, Hey,
Hey, a Zack, it's not
cute anymore. You don't speak
Chinese. So don't practice at
work, figure it out and
come back to me when
you're better or are they
infinitely patient patient. That's awesome.
I love the way you
say that. So, Sorry. I
hope I'm not, I don't
want to insult anybody, but
I just kind of putting
myself like I'm imagining myself
in that situation. Well, I
love it. So, and you're
right on. So I definitely
don't try to speak Chinese
when I'm really trying to
get a point across and
when it's an inappropriate time.
So there's, so there's two
elements to that. One is
at work. I speak Chinese
around the, some of the
topics, just kind of like
social topics, like, you know,
the hellos and kind of
what's going on and the
social topics of a conversation
or when we go to
lunch. So mix of Chinese
and English. And then I
also have been starting to
mix in more Chinese, even
with my English along around
certain phrases that are very
sort of common to use.
So it's sort of blending
a little bit, but I
definitely don't try to speak
my really poor Chinese inappropriate
times when we're dealing with
real issues. So, so that,
that has an impact though,
because for me being in
China, that really limits the
relationships that I can build
with customers and partners in
particular, outside of Microsoft, who
aren't comfortable communicating in Chinese
or in English. So it
really is a challenge as
someone in a culture where
you don't speak the language
well, to be able to
connect and know and build
relationships. And especially in China
where relationships are ultra important,
lots of other places they
are too, but it is
very important in China. So
it limits what I can
do here, which is really
the big reason for me
that I'm trying to learn
Chinese so hard is that
I believe in the importance
of China and sort of
the future of the world.
And I love China and
I want to really be
able to know it and
to be successful here. So
learning the language I think
is really important. So yeah,
I think you nailed it
though. You can't, people won't
be patient with me and
my cute Chinese, if we're
in a heated discussion about
anything really. So yeah, There's
a, there's a, there's an
American, a writer named David
Sedaris who is great. He's
a great kind of commentator
and comedian and he lives
in France. Now. I think
he grew up in, I
want to say South Carolina or
something like that. And he
said that he was really,
I seem to remember him
saying he was very frustrated
when he moved to France
and how all the babies
spoke French so wonderfully. And
he was just like, they're
so smart. They speak French.
You know, I wish I
could kind of, you know,
I thought he thought that
the language, the learning of
French would, would come on
its own the way that
it comes to babies, except
people don't talk to foreigners
the way that they talk
to babies. Here's the, here's
the quote he says, he
says they don't hypnotize you
with bright objects and repeat
the same words over and
over handing out little treats
when you finally say potty,
right? So he said, yeah,
he would basically get jealous
when he saw a baby
in a bakery because he's
like that kid has it
really easy. You know, I
want to lie in a
French crib and start from
scratch and learn the language
from the ground up. So
instead he ends up being
this kind of spooky man-child
that really is like, hi,
I am sprints speaking, learn.
I want to have coffee.
You. And it was so
far, I find the same
thing myself, when I'm trying
to make myself understood. I'm
feeling like if only they
knew me, they would know
I'm not an idiot. You
know? Like you feel like
the barrier to the language
is preventing you from putting
your best self forward. And
it's caused me to be
really, what's the word really
empathetic when I hear speak
with people trying to speak
English to me and they
say, Oh, I'm so sorry
for my poor English. And
the first thing out of
my mouth is I'm sorry,
I don't speak your language.
Gosh, you're trying to be
doing so well. Yeah. So
I think you hit on
a few interesting points there,
one that language learning when
you're under, I think six
Pat, and then once you're
over six or something in
that sort of age range,
it's different. Like it goes
into a different place in
your brain. It's engraved in
a different sort of way.
So there's definitely just a
difference in learning when you're
that young versus older, apart
from just the flashy shiny
objects and repeating the words
in your face. So, and
that, that reminds me of
another related topic in that.
So Rosetta stone being sort
of the leading software for
language learning. So I believe
their methods are based largely
on an approach that is
similar to language as a
child and that sort of
repeating of things. And it's
all in the native language
or in the, in the
foreign language. And it's, it's
based on the similar approach
to learning from a child.
Whereas I used some software
in, when I first got
out here called Fluenz like
F L U E N
Z, and really cool innovative
company that really puts a
lot of effort into just
the user experience of their
software and just really, really
great, really well done software.
And they're the kind of
company that you want to
support with just everything they're
doing. So, and their approach
is different and doesn't take
that same style to language
learning. And I found that
that adult language learners, you
need a different approach. So
I think that's sort of
an interesting side topic. And
then another thing you, you
pointed out was this sort
of notion of how you
come across to people you're
talking to in the foreign
language. And there's this guy
who's sort of famous in
China and for China Watchers,
a guy named Kaiser Guam.
And so I met Kaiser
at South by Southwest. He
did like a Google in
China talk, right? When sort
of a bunch of stuff
was going down between them
a few years ago. Yeah.
And I know him in
a bit. And so he
does a whole podcast series,
really interesting called Sinica. And
he spent a writer for
magazines and articles and stuff
like that. So there's this
one article he wrote that
talks about this very same
topic, how you are a
different person in your non
native language. And much of
the time it is, you're
a much, you're a simpleton.
You don't come across as
eloquent. Your personality is different
and he relates it. Even
if I can get this
right. Even relates it to
some people, they learn Chinese
in Beijing cabs in Beijing
cab drivers are all like
real local sort of Beijing
owners and like Gummer and
really sort of chew on
their arms and like just
a whole different kind of
way you talk and sort
of like slang and some
foul sort of speech. And
so you'd have these sort
of really elegant English speakers,
but then when they start
speaking Chinese, they sound like,
you know, just a hardcore
Beijing cabby. And then another
one that I think is
even more funny is some
of the foreigners here who
maybe they have like a
Chinese girlfriend or a wife
or whatever that is. And
they learn Chinese largely through
that. So when, you know,
they may be a super
sort of macho masculine guy,
but then when they start
speaking Chinese, all of a
sudden they're like using all
of these terms that are
much more feminine and sort
of ended up really coming
off as a different personality.
So it's definitely something to
be empathetic when you're listening
to non native speakers. That
really the way they're coming
to might not be the
core of who they really
are. So that's good. Yeah.
If you, if you, for
example, learn, I met some
kids in Southeast Asia that
had learned most of their
English watching like Terminator And
you know, and this just
like, wow, we don't really
talk like that, but they
don't know. They're just trying
it. So then you might
get a sense that this
is a really intense kind
of a, you know, it's
like meeting a, a stereotypical
mobster type from the forties
or something in New York. And
you realize that this is
just how the kid happened
to learn the language. And
you know, so you don't
even know who your, who
your tutor is, right? I
mean, who, what, what, what
Chinese accent or Chinese style
or, and not just the
accent, but the idiomatic speech
and the tempo and the
tambour of how you speak,
what is that saying about
you? Exactly. It's true. That's
why you have to have
a lot of friends. So
for me, I've got a
lot of Western friends and
a lot of friends here
who are, are Chinese and
speak English, but definitely you
gotta mix it up. If
you have the opportunity to
live in a culture where
you are there, it's not
just be friends with the
same people. Don't just learn
Chinese from your teacher. So
sort of use my study
as the foundation and then
use it as much as
possible with different people. And
you gotta mix it up.
That reminds me this guy,
the Terminator movie, I met
him just a few nights
ago. So there's a city
in China called Yon Thai
that's by the ocean. So
Yon tie, Dave is his
name. So he's this Chinese
dude who studied English, but
he learned, he really liked
the Cockney accent and in
particular, like sort of British
gangster films. So this guy
is hilarious. He sounds, and
it's, his accent is perfect.
I was hanging out with
him the other night with
a bunch of other English
guys and one dude who
was actually Cockney and, and
they just sounded the exact
same and Cockney Dave, he
just like comes off like
a pure English gangster. It's
awesome. So yeah, if you
tune it right, you can
really sort of shape the
person that you want to
be. If you really sort
of put some conscious effort
into it, How much time
do you spend thinking about
language you're 14 months into
it? You're you're probably, would
you say you're conversationally fluent
in Chinese? What level would
you put you on a,
you know, you're comfortable, right?
You're certainly you could go
to Chinatown in San Francisco
and impress a lot of
people. I'm sure. I mean,
I guess it's to the
point I I've gone through
phases where I've, you know,
studied five days a week
and done my homework and
really been hardcore and felt
like I was progressing. And
then there've been phases where
other priorities, you know, for
a month or two at
a time took hold and
wasn't studying a lot and
things like that. So, so
it goes in sort of
ebbs and flows like that.
But at this point, I
would say I'm comfortable to
get around and to have,
you know, general kind of
basic conversations. Now, when I
meet customers and partners, if
I'm doing presentations and things
like that, I've got to
do them in English, but
I can do my intro
in Chinese. And when we
have lunch, I can talk
to them about sports and
friends and family and where
I'm from and things like
that. And in Chinese, you
know, it's getting better every
day, every day, Ella, you,
how you'd say in Chinese.
Yeah. Well, one thing I'd
say that's What, sorry, I
was going to say, so
you touch on kind of
what direction I was going,
which is you, you, you
say that there were days
or months or periods of
time where you're like, okay,
I'm studying, I'm hardcore, I'm
moving. It's like, you know,
it's like when you're hitting
the gym all the time
and then, and then there's
a plateau, right? How much
do you think about getting,
getting fluent? Like how much
has fluency or at least
as a reasonable amount of
fluency as a, as an
adult westerner can get part
of the goal. So when,
when your China experience ends,
whether it's next year or
when you're 50, you'll come
out and you'll go, yeah,
man, and I'm fluent and
that's awesome. Or will it
be less about the language
and more about the experience?
I'd say the language is
a facilitator to having the
right experience for me. So
actual speaking of Chinese, it's
a, it's kind of fun,
but I do it because
I want to be able
to experience China in a
deep way. And I want
to be able to be
successful here and be able
to sort of know what's
really going on. So I'd
say it's more about the
experience, but that language is
just so core to having
the right experience. At least
for me, that's why I
enjoy it. It's also with
Spanish. Like I love Spain.
I want to live in
Spain again. I want to
keep my Spanish going. And
one thing right now, and
this relates back to the
learning as a kid or
as an adult, it's kind
of funny because I think
as an adult, all of
your extra, your additional languages
kind of go to this
one place in your brain.
And right now, when I
think of Chinese and Spanish,
they both look the same
in my brain. And when
I try, when I speak
Spanish, now, sometimes I start
mixing in Chinese and to
Spanish people that I'm talking
to, who don't know Chinese,
they just like their head
tilts and turns. And I
don't even realize that I
switched between the two languages.
So, so it's kind of,
yeah, It's funny that you
say that because I've got
a bunch of, of, of
Ethiopian Amharic in my brain
from 10 years ago and
I've gotten, you know, I've
got the books and every
couple of months, I'll just
kind of like go through
the first five or six
chapters and make sure that
I've not completely lost it,
but I'm also trying to
learn my wife's language. None
of the, our mother, her
mother or my mother-in-law stays
with us. So I've got
my sons, my wife, my,
my sister in law, her
kids, everyone's all speaking the
same language and I'm having
trouble keeping the end to
belly. It's called the belly.
That's a symbolic language. I'm
having trouble keeping their language
and Emeric straight. And I
I'll look at something and
the Amharic word will come
right to mind. And then
I'll end up putting together
a complete Zulu or in
Dibeli sentence with an Ethiopian
direct object in the middle
of it somewhere. And it
makes total sense to me
because somehow there's an African
language center that is put
all of that stuff in
one place. It's almost like
Americans can only have one
other language we're not allowed
three. So, so maybe that
is true. So do you
find that happens when you're
writing code? Like, and does
it have to do if
they're like syntax syntactically based
on like, say C, C,
C plus, plus like, so
if you're writing C-sharp and
Java script or PHP, they
can all just sort of
mix. And, but then if
you get into something that's
a whole sort of different
syntactical base, then it, it
stays separate. Or do you
find you can separate your
programming languages? So that's a
good question because you're saying
that Chinese and Spanish are
mixing in your head. And
from my perspective, they have
no business mixing. Like there's
not, they're not even close.
I'm mixing two to two
African languages that both have
what are called glottals glottal
stops. They have specific sounds.
That sounds like that sounds
similar. And they kind of
in the same general neighborhood,
there's still 2000 miles behind,
but there's still, you know,
it I'm, hurricane is more
Afro Semitic and in the
belly is more bond too.
But the point is there,
at least they have some
shared sounds, but I'm like,
wow, how are you? So
I guess what I'm saying
is I'm I organize them
in my brain by sound
and by how they feel
in my mouth. But you're
saying that you're mixing two
languages that don't look or
feel anything alike. So well,
Yeah, they definitely aren't based
on the same, like roots
for me, they just, they
feel the same. They're they,
I feel like they both
have, cause in Chinese when
you write it in opinion
and like the Romanized version
of it instead of Chinese
characters, no, they're, they're usually
short words. They have a
lot of vowels. I don't
know. I don't, I've never
tried to figure out exactly
why, but I swear, like
in the way I picture
it in my mind, they
look the exact same and
they can interchange without any
problems. So Do you have,
do you have an example,
give us, give us a
sentence that you might say
where you accidentally order a
burrito in Spanish, or what
is it an Indian, Chinese
rather? Is there a sentence
that you can think of
that would be the kind
of thing that you would
mix up when you mix
the two, You know, being
put on the spot? I
think I could, but if
I actually started to try
and speak Spanish right now,
I guarantee the Chinese would
just start mixing in. So
yeah, it just happens. It's
really, That's funny. Yeah. So
you said your, your open-ended
in China right now. You
you'll stay there until the
next thing comes up. That's
my plan. If my mom
hears this, she's not gonna
like hearing that, but you
know, I like it. I
am pretty embedded now. Like
got the friend group happening
here, feel much more like
it's home, I've got my
motorcycles and just the life
is just feeling really comfortable.
So, I mean, we'll see
what, where life takes me.
I'm not one to make
huge long range plans, but
I like it. There's a
lot happening here. A lot
of opportunity. It's a culture
where, because sort of just
economically and society leaders, this
huge sort of progress it's
happening, it's like palpable. Like
you can just feel it
in the culture. I mean,
there's definitely elements of culture
where there's a lot of,
sort of concern about social
welfare and about a lot
of sort of issues. But
in general, it's a place
where things are really on
the rise and you can
feel it in the society.
So it's really just a
nice place to be in
that way. So yeah, no
plans to leave school. The
question is when are you
going to come out here
and visit? I was there.
I was there like a,
what was it? Eight months
ago with Dame sr. Yeah,
I know doing the webcams.
So I don't, I wasn't
here when you were, You
were, I think you were
on a business trip or
something. Yeah, it may have
been, or maybe You've crossed
over Hawaii somewhere. I'm not
sure Could have, could have
been for sure. I will
Back. I will come back
and then, then you will
teach me more Chinese because
the only Chinese, I know
who to two taught me
this stupid little phrase. There's
a little kid and my
accent is her. This is
the one Chinese phrase. I
know Nisha Kwan Show me,
you selected you, you liked
like nice. You've won It.
Like, do you like my
nose? Yeah, that's what I
thought it was pizza. So
it's, it's pretty common thing
for a Chinese to point
out about Oh, Westerners in
particular. So yeah, like Niecy
quad means like, do you
like, like ni is a
U and then see Kwan
like then will the beads
like, well would be me.
So will the beads, This
one will the beads ma
Yes. That's pretty good. One.
You should, you need to
keep that The one in
the memory bank, because you
never know when you might
want to ask a random
Chinese person, if they like
your nose. Well, that is
a conversation starter, like nobody's
business. You ever want to
just break the ice with
someone in China, you have
that phrase in your pocket
and there is there's no
stop. Oh, so I got
that going for me. That's
fantastic. Well, so nice to
talk to you again, Zach
and I look forward to
seeing you again. I'm not
sure what country we'll be
in, but I'm sure. Go
ahead and send me, send
me the link to these
different learning programs and language
programs that worked for you.
I'm sure that the folks
that are listening would love
to learn more about this
was at fluent as well
as fluent, as well as
Rosetta stone. Yeah. And Sinica,
I'll send a link to
that because people are just
interested in China. They've got
a great podcast series about
sort of current events in
China, from a bunch of
sort of old hand China
Watchers that really recommended. Can
you, can you take us
out in Chinese on our
show today? Can you say
anything even a children's nursery
rhyme that we can just
say is the minutes Introduction
an extra? Oh, well, I
don't know. How about your,
how about what's that? I
was going to say how
much you're into your standard
business introduction when you're giving
a presentation. Oh, wow. Well
the real typical one, there
would be like, you know,
Walsher, Owen's a Woodside
so that means just like,
Hey, I'm Zach I'm Owen.
So my, my last name
is Owens, so, Oh. And
sir is my Chinese name,
which has really cool meanings.
And that pretty much means
then been in China for
a year. My Chinese isn't
that good? So I need
to speak English. Cool. That's
awesome. That's the easy one.
I've got some more I
can add if I really
need to, but that one,
that one's pretty simple and
flows, so Very nice. Well,
thanks so much. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes. See you again next
week.